New Docker guide (#1816)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/cookbooks/docker.md

# Using Meilisearch with Docker

Docker is a tool that packages applications into containers portable across a wide range of environments. When using Docker for development, we recommend following [the official instructions to install Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

In this guide you will learn how to use Docker to download and run Meilisearch, configure your instance, and manage your Meilisearch data.

## Download Meilisearch with Docker

> Docker containers are distributed in images. To use Meilisearch, use the `docker pull` command to download a Meilisearch image:

Reviewer: Okay, I'm convinced! Resolving this conversation 👍🏻

```sh

> docker pull getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28

Reviewer 2: If this is merged after v0.29, we need to update it. Or we could go with `getmeili/meilisearch:v0.X.X` so we don't have to update it every time

Reviewer 3: I would say `vX.Y.Z` is more common, and your guide will be already ready for v1 😇

Reviewer 3: I was thinking, we could consider automating the version update in documentation for every release as we already do on the integration team side
An automated PR will be created to update all the `v0.28` into `v0.29` for example

@dichotommy come to me if you want to introduce this automation, I think we could create something quite easily with a GitHub action
It would be the best solution: nothing to maintain on your side, and the users can copy/paste

Author: That's an interesting idea. I had planned to look into string interpolation for this (e.g. we have a variable in config.js and write this sample as `getmeili/meilisearch:${version}`). 

Do you think the automated PR route could cause problems when we start giving access to different documentation versions to users?

Reviewer 3: When you will version the docs, we will need to adapt the automation, definitely. Since I cannot how you will handle it (with git branch? With different repos?) I cannot guess.
In we don't know how to adapt it, we will remove it, this is the best way to "adapt" haha

```

Meilisearch deploys a new Docker image for every new release. All images are tagged with the release version—indicated in the example above by the text following the `:`. You can see [the full list of available Meilisearch Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/r/getmeili/meilisearch/tags#!) on Docker Hub.

::: warning
The `latest` tag will always download the most recent Meilisearch release. Meilisearch advises against using it, as it might result in different machines running different images if significant time passes between setting up each one of them.

> :::

Reviewer 4: Yes, using the `latest` call could lead to unexpected behaviors. It is preferable to use the latest version directly instead of this alias :)

> ## Run Meilisearch

Author: Can I push back on this? I just feel that being this specific doesn't add much—technically, yes, we're not giving instructions about running the Meilisearch binary, but that's what the user cares about, no?

Also, Docker terminology is confusing. I want to avoid the discussion on whether we are running the image or the container.

> ## Run Meilisearch

Reviewer: I was inspired to make this suggestion by seeing that you titled the first section `Download Meilisearch with Docker`. I think that's a great choice that shows a lot of foresight, because when a user searches "Download Meilisearch" and it returns this heading, we want them to understand what they're clicking on. I think you can apply the same logic to this heading: we probably wouldn't want someone searching "run meilisearch" (or "install meilisearch" or any other term that we may define as a synonym) to find this result.

I stand by my suggestion (amended in response to your second point) but leave the decision up to you.

```suggestion
## Run Meilisearch with Docker
```

> ## Run Meilisearch

Author: Ok, sounds good. Seeing your second suggestion I realise my problem was more with terminology than your actual main point.

After running `docker pull` and downloading the Meilisearch image, use `docker run` to launch it:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
```

### Configure Meilisearch

Meilisearch accepts a number of instance options during launch. You can configure instance options in two ways: environment variables and CLI arguments. Some options are only available as CLI arguments—[consult our configuration reference for an exhaustive list](/learn/configuration/instance_options.md).

> #### Passing instance options with environment variables

Author: Moving discussion about instance options to [a dedicated issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/documentation/issues/1904).

To pass environment variables to Docker, you must pass the `-e` argument to `docker run`. The example below launches Meilisearch with a master key:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -e MEILI_MASTER_KEY='MASTER_KEY'\
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
```

> #### Passing instance options with CLI arguments

Author: Moving discussion about instance options to [a dedicated issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/documentation/issues/1904).

> If you want to pass command-line arguments to Meilisearch with Docker, you must explicitly run the `meilisearch` binary after indicating the Meilisearch image you want to use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to pass command-line arguments to Meilisearch with Docker, you must add a line to the end of your `docker run` command explicitly launching the `meilisearch` binary:
```

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
  meilisearch --master-key="MASTER_KEY"
```

## Managing data

When using Docker, your working directory is `/meili_data`. This means the location of your database file is `/meili_data/data.ms`.

### Data persistency

By default, data written to a Docker container is deleted every time the container stops running. This data includes your indexes and the documents they store.

To keep your data intact between reboots, specify a dedicated volume by running Docker with the `-v` command-line option:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
```

> The example above uses `$(pwd)/meili_data`, which is a directory in the host machine. Depending on your OS, mounting volumes from the host to the container might result in performance loss and is only recommended when developing and prototyping your application.

Reviewer: Streamlining since this is slightly redundant

```suggestion
The example above uses `$(pwd)/meili_data`, which is a directory in the host machine. Depending on your OS, mounting volumes from the host to the container might result in performance loss and is only recommended when developing your application.
```

### Generating dumps and updating Meilisearch

> To export a dump, [use the dumps endpoint as described in our dedicated dumps guide](/learn/advanced/dumps.md). Once the task is complete, you can access the dump file in `/meili_data/dumps` inside the volume you configured with `-v`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export a dump, [use the create dump endpoint as described in our dumps guide](/learn/advanced/dumps.md). Once the task is complete, you can access the dump file in `/meili_data/dumps` inside the volume you passed with `-v`.
```

> To import a dump, use the `--import-dump` command-line option and specify the path to the dump file. Make sure the path points to a volume reachable by Docker:

Reviewer: Since this can get confusing, perhaps we should note when we're referring to a Meilisearch command-line option and when we're referring to a Docker one.

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
  meilisearch --import-dump /meili_data/dumps/20200813-042312213.dump
```

::: warning

> If you are using a shared volume, you must delete `/meili_data/data.ms` before importing a dump.

Reviewer: Is there any link we could provide to elaborate on the meaning of this? Putting myself in the shoes of a user, I've got no clue what a shared volume is or how to know if this applies to me.

Author: I pretty much copied this verbatim from an SME. As far as I understand, the shared volume is the external data volume. Updated the wording so this is clear.

:::

> You must use dumps to migrate data between different Meilisearch releases. [Read more about updating Meilisearch in our dedicated guide.](/learn/advanced/updating.md)

Reviewer: The imperative is imperative for technical writers 🙃 

```suggestion
Use dumps to migrate data between different Meilisearch releases. [Read more about updating Meilisearch in our dedicated guide.](/learn/advanced/updating.md)
```

### Snapshots

To generate a Meilisearch snapshot with Docker, launch Meilisearch with `--schedule-snapshot` and `--snapshot-dir`:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
  meilisearch --schedule-snapshot --snapshot-dir /meili_data/snapshots
```

`--snapshot-dir` should point to a folder inside the Docker working directory for Meilisearch, `/meili_data`. Once generated, snapshots will be available in the configured directory.

To import a snapshot, launch Meilisearch with the `--import-snapshot` option:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
  meilisearch --import-snapshot /meili_data/snapshots/data.ms.snapshot
```

> You can use snapshots when migrating data between Meilisearch instances using the same release version. [Read more about snapshots in our dedicated guide.](/learn/advanced/snapshots.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use snapshots for backup or when migrating data between two Meilisearch instances of the same version. [Read more about snapshots in our guide.](/learn/advanced/snapshots.md)
```

  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.29
```

The example above uses `$(pwd)/meili_data`, which is a directory in the host machine. Depending on your OS, mounting volumes from the host to the container might result in performance loss and is only recommended when developing your application.

### Generating dumps and updating Meilisearch

To export a dump, [use the create dump endpoint as described in our dumps guide](/learn/advanced/dumps.md). Once the task is complete, you can access the dump file in `/meili_data/dumps` inside the volume you passed with `-v`.

To import a dump, use Meilisearch's `--import-dump` command-line option and specify the path to the dump file. Make sure the path points to a volume reachable by Docker:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.29
  meilisearch --import-dump /meili_data/dumps/20200813-042312213.dump
```

Note that exporting and importing dumps require using command-line arguments. [For more information on how to use Docker to run Meilisearch with CLI options, refer to this guide's relevant section.](#passing-instance-options-with-cli-arguments)

::: warning

> If you are using storing your data in a persistent volume as instructed in [the data persistency section](#data-persistency), you must delete `/meili_data/data.ms` in that volume before importing a dump.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are storing your data in a persistent volume as instructed in [the data persistency section](#data-persistency), you must delete `/meili_data/data.ms` in that volume before importing a dump.
```

# Using Meilisearch with Docker

A common way of installing Meilisearch is using Docker. In this guide you will learn what Docker is, how to install it in your local machine, and how to use Meilisearch with it.

## Docker

Docker is a tool that packages an application's code and dependencies into something called a container. Using Docker allows developers to ensure their software runs reliably across a wide range of machines and environments.

Docker containers are distributed in images. Docker images are packages storing not only the container, but also instructions on how Docker should instantiate that container.

> ## Install Docker

Reviewer 5: We should also share a small note for those developers who don't have GUI, for instance if they are using a Cloud instance of Linux. So adding instructions for using Docker CLI

Author: Hi Shivay! I wanted to do that, but Docker seems to have gone out of its way to remove Docker CLI mentions from anywhere remotely useful. Since it's not our job to explain things Docker doesn't, I decided to write the guide from the assumption that people using Docker on remote machines know what they're doing.

The first step to start using Docker is installing it in your target machine. We recommend following [Docker's official instructions to install Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/), available for MacOS, Windows, and Linux.

> Docker for Desktop includes an interface for managing your containers, command-line applications and several tools required for using Docker.

Reviewer 6: Do you think this is really in the scope of the **meilisearch** documentation?
I don't think I’ve ever seen a software explaining what's docker and how to install it 🤔

Author: I was in doubt about these sections. On one hand Docker install instructions are certainly not our business. On the other, I find Docker quite intimidating and confusing for new users, so I thought a little intro might be appreciated by newer users.

Thanks for the feedback. I'll discuss this with rest of team—we will probably reduce it significantly, but might still keep one or two sentences for the sake of inexperienced users.

## Install Meilisearch

Once you installed Docker you can use the `docker pull` command to download a Meilisearch image:

```sh
docker pull getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28

> ```

Reviewer 7: Like @irevoire I don't think the pull order is really necessary, but on the other hand, I love the explanations on the version.
Also, I find the title a bit confusing because we are not going to `install Meilisearch`, maybe something with an `image` could be more accurate. `Use Meilisearch image`?

Reviewer 6: >  I love the explanations on the version

Yes, if we remove the `pull` step, we should totally keep the explanation and move it to the `run` step.

Author: I'll update the title—you're right, "Install" is not appropriate when talking about Docker images and can lead to confusion.

Meilisearch deploys a new Docker image for every new release. All images are tagged with the release version. You can see [the full list of available Meilisearch Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/r/getmeili/meilisearch/tags#!) on Docker Hub.

::: warning
Meilisearch advises against using the `latest` tag. As its name indicates, `latest` will always get the most recent Meilisearch release, which might result in different machines running different images if significant time passes between setting up each of them.

> :::

Reviewer 6: Since docker run also pulls the image, is there really an advantage to explaining the pull command?

In general, I would say the more we reduce the number of step to get meilisearch running the better.

Author: Couldn't  using `run` without `pull`ing before  result in Docker not using the latest version of an image?

Reviewer 6: Well, you still need to specify the version you want to use when you `run`, right?

Or is your point about multiple `run` over a long period of time?
Iirc `docker run` will first look in the cached images; if it doesn't need anything, it will run `docker pull` and then execute.
But if it does find something, it won't `pull` anything, and thus you might miss all the minor versions of meilisearch 🤔 

That's an interesting point; maybe we should keep the `docker pull` but move it later in the section to make the initial installation seems easier? 🤔 
We could make an « update meilisearch » which tells you to run `docker pull` and explain the dump or something like that.

But then the « casual » user who doesn't know much about docker is going to miss all the bug fixes of the minor version, which isn't what we want either 😬 

Honestly, I have no idea of what you should prioritize, but I think you have all the information to make a decision 😂

## Run Meilisearch

> After running `docker pull` and installing Meilisearch, you can use `docker run` to launch it:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
After running `docker pull` and downloading Meilisearch image, you can use `docker run` to launch it:
```

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
```

### Passing instance options

Meilisearch accepts a number of instance options during launch. You can configure instance options in two ways: environment variables and CLI arguments.

#### Passing instance options with environment variables

To pass environment variables to Docker, you must use the `-e` argument. The example below launches Meilisearch with a master key:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -e MEILI_MASTER_KEY='MASTER_KEY'\
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
```

#### Passing instance options with CLI arguments

In the previous examples, Docker implicitly runs Meilisearch. If you want to pass command-line arguments to Meilisearch with Docker, you must explicitly run the `meilisearch` binary:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28

>   meilisearch --master-key="MASTER_KEY"

Reviewer 7: For me, it's a bit confusing to use the same example as an environment variable and as a CLI command, I'd be the type to think that I can pass all the options to CLI-command

Reviewer 7: Actually, I checked and it is almost always the case except for some commands so ... I don't  know if you deal with links but maybe we can have the link to the `env` variable page

Reviewer 6: It's a good remark, I thought about it when I've first seen it, and then checked PostgreSQL (which is my ultimate reference of what a good dockerfile should be) and they showed both way to do it so I thought it was ok.
But after your comment I checked a bunch of other very well known docker image and it look like most people only show the env variable way;
- [PostgreSQL](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres) show both way to do it
- [gogs](https://hub.docker.com/r/gogs/gogs) only uses env variables
- [gitlab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/install/docker.html) only env variables
- [deluge](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/deluge) only env variables
- [radarr](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/radarr) only env var
- [calibre](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/calibre) only env variables
- [plex](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/plex) only env var
- [sqlite](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/sqlitebrowser) only env var
- [LibreOffice](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/libreoffice) only env var
- [duckdns](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/duckdns) only env var
- [pihole](https://hub.docker.com/r/pihole/pihole) only env var but almost no variables
- [nginx](https://hub.docker.com/_/nginx/) use a config file or env variables since the last version
- [apache](https://hub.docker.com/_/httpd) use a config file

Author: That's interesting, thanks for the references. 

I dislike having two very similar ways of configuring an instance with Docker. It just drops the decision on the user's lap: "both ways are pretty much the same and have similar results, flip a coin or something if you can't decide."

However, despite what other docs do, I think it's very important to show the CLI method because there are certain Meilisearch options (e.g. `--import-dump`, `--import-snapshot`, and their siblings) that are not available as env vars.

To keep your data intact between reboots, specify a dedicated volume by running Docker with the `-v` command-line option:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
```

The example above uses `$(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data`, which is a directory in the host machine. This is only recommended when developing and prototyping your application.

::: tip
If you cannot find the `data.ms` file when following instructions in the Meilisearch documentation, look for `/meili_data/data.ms`.
:::

### Dumps

To export a dump, use the dumps endpoint as described in our dedicated dumps guide. Once the task is complete, you can access the dump file in the `/meili_data` directory inside the volume you configured with `-v`.

To import a dump, use the `--import-dump` command-line option and specify the path to the dump. Make sure the path points to `/meili_data` in a volume reachable by the Docker:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28

>   meilisearch --import-dump /meili_data/20200813-042312213.dump

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  meilisearch --import-dump dumps/20200813-042312213.dump
```

The dumps are actually thrown in the `dumps` directory.

Reviewer 7: I don't know if this is relevant but you will have to delete `data.ms` before you can import a dump

Reviewer 5: Yes this is important

Author: But it's still inside the mounted volume, right? Wouldn't `/dumps` be more accurate in that case?

Reviewer 6: > But it's still inside the mounted volume, right? Wouldn't /dumps be more accurate in that case?

It's either `/meili_data/dumps` or `dumps`, but not `/dumps`.

> I don't know if this is relevant but you will have to delete data.ms before you can import a dump

Maybe instead of doing a `making a dump` part, we should make an `update meilisearch` part that explains how you can import a dump entirely with the deletion of the `data.ms`? 🤔

```

### Snapshots

To generate a Meilisearch snapshot with Docker, launch Meilisearch with `--schedule-snapshot` and `--snapshot-dir`:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28
  meilisearch --schedule-snapshot --snapshot-dir /meili_data/snapshots
```

`--snapshot-dir` should point to a folder inside the Docker working directory for Meilisearch, `/meili_data`. Once generated, snapshots will be available in the configured directory.

To import a snapshot, launch Meilisearch with the `--import-snapshot` option:

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -p 7700:7700 \
  -v $(pwd)/meili_data:/meili_data \
  getmeili/meilisearch:v0.28

>   meilisearch --import-snapshot /meili_data/data.ms.snapshot

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  meilisearch --import-snapshot snapshots/data.ms.snapshot
```
same
